>> Erik Reinert: So let's go ahead and
let's create our next module
which is our service module.
So if I do service as a directory,
I'm now going to have cluster,
database, environment, network, service.
And again,
what's kind of cool is as you could see
how these all kind of stack, right?
So we have environment at the very top,
then inside of environment we
have cluster, database,
network, service, right?
And then at the very, very top level
we have environments that we use which
have clusters networks inside of them.
So we're going to go
into our service again.
If you want to know
where I am in the path,
you can just look at my terminal
at the top and it'll show you.
So I'm in the terraform
module service directory and
I'm going to create some files.
So the first file I'm going
to create is a data TF file.
So you should see there it is,
there's my data TF file.
And inside of this I'm going to copy paste
all of the stuff we need for data and
I'm going to go through it really quickly.
As I said before,
we need to give permissions to
things to be able to do things.
And up until now there really
hasn't been much that things we
are provisioning need to do.
And what I mean by that is
a network is just a network.
It's not like the network goes out and
talks to other networks and
all that kind of stuff.
It's just a network.
It doesn't do anything besides be there.
Same thing with a database.
A database doesn't talk to s3 and
any of that.
So we don't have to worry about that.
But when you're talking about the compute
plane, specifically compute being like
anything that processes something,
you'll normally have to give it policies.
And so
you will start seeing more policies and
permissions in more like actionable
services like lambdas or
ECS or again anything logically
that can do something can act.
You need to normally give
it permissions to act.
In this case we're creating
an assume role for that service so
that the service can do what it needs.
Now earlier, we created roles for
nodes, right?
You might be asking yourself the question
why are we having node roles and
then service roles?
The main point of that is
the separation between the two, right?
The node may need permissions to mount
a volume for the cluster, right?
Or do other cluster related operations,
but that doesn't mean that
the service running on top of it should
be able to do those operations, right?
And so what we do is we say,
okay, well the node can do things
specific to the infrastructure side, but
the service focuses on roles
related to the service side.
So if the service needs to connect to sqs,
we don't want to give that to the or,
I'm sorry, yeah,
if the service needs to connect to sqs,
we don't want to give that to the node.
There's no need.
The node has no connection to sqs or
need to communicate with it.
So the node wouldn't need that permission.
So we keep those separate.
If you were doing a VPA,
VPS equivalent, right,
in that case you don't
get that separation.
So the node would act as both because
everything's running directly on the host,
there's no container there.
So we have a service role
that we're creating and
in that service role we're really just
telling it that it can do three things.
It can get parameters.
Remember all the way back in
App Runner when we had to copy and
paste the arns in and stuff.
Yeah, that's gone.
That's a way easier and
nicer way of doing it.
And yeah, we can just reuse
the parameters that we have in a different
part of the module as code.
And so in this case what we're doing
is we are iterating over a for
loop and we're saying, hey,
get the SSM parameter arn and
make it so that this can
actually request those values.
The other thing is log stream and
put log events.
Basically this is all
related to CloudWatch.
We want to be able to see what's coming
out of the containers just like we did in
App Runner.
And so this is a little bit more fancy.
You're getting like a nice little log
group with a seven day retention period
and inside of it you get
the access to permit or
you're giving the service
the ability to push the logs to it.
Okay, cool.
So then we just create a task assume
role and a service assume role.
There is a little bit
of a confusing thing.
I don't want to go super deep down
the rabbit hole because it's just
like Amazon specific stuff stuff.
But there's like an execution role and
then I think there's a task role or
basically there's two different
types of roles that ECS uses.
The main gist of the difference is one
is used to start the container and
the things that are needed
to start that container and
the permissions around it and
the other is used for
the requests actually inside
of the container so again, for
example, if a container needs
ECR access in order to pull,
then that would be an execution role.
But if I don't want the internal
container to be able to pull an image,
then I want to put that on the execution
role, not on the service role.
So there's even another
layer of separation there.
Again, you don't need
to go too deep into it.
You just need to know if the service
role is really the one that is giving us
the ability to get parameters and
all that stuff.
But just a little bit of background
into how annoying ECs can be.
>> Speaker 2: I guess,
why are you assuming that role twice?
I mean, that third one that
you have to assume ECS task,
you also have it at the top, I think.
What's the difference between those two?
The task assume role and
the execution role.
>> Erik Reinert: So, okay, if we see
here the execution assume role, I mean,
they all do the same thing technically.
They all do the exact same thing, right?
AssumeRole ecs.
Sorry, no, this is for ECS tasks.
Yeah, so
that would be the difference there.
And this is also ECS tasks.
Yeah, so I guess that's the difference
is just the domains that
the identifiers are referencing.
Yeah, now it does mean though,
that every service on ecs needs a task and
an execution role.
So that's why we're creating two of them.
The third one, the service role,
may be another thing that I'm doing,
or it may be being used for
another resource.
So I would just pay attention
to the task assume role and
then the execution assume role.
Those are the two that we're talking
about that a service actually uses.
So
>> Speaker 3: I'm a little confused.
Like, if we're creating these,
why are they data?
>> Erik Reinert: Okay, good question.
So a resource normally means
a logically created thing,
something that actually exists and
has state of existence, right?
But this goes back to the whole like
pulumi versus terraform thing even.
Right.
In a normal code base,
you could just be const value JSON,
blah blah, blah, blah blah, right?
And then write out your JSON.
You can't do that in terraform easily,
right?
And so especially with writing,
you remember how you might notice
that in these dados data brackets,
they don't have the statement name.
And the ones that are in
Amazon are much larger.
Basically, these
are helpful data resources,
basically that will take this code and
then turn it into JSON for you,
and it'll kind of like fluff it out
into what it actually should be.
Or expand it out to what it should be.
So all we have to do is be like statement,
principles,
identifiers, types, and
then it will translate that to.
Hold on, I can actually show you.
So if we go to IAM really quickly,
go to Policies.
Do I have an assume role in here?
No, actually, hold on.
That would be this.
So let's do, do I have, yeah, I do, cool.
Yeah.
So
you see how this one has like
version statement, right.
And the structure is a bit different.
Basically, the terraform provider
provides an interface that will make it.
So you only have to write this and
then it will translate it to this.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: So it's kind of like
a hacky type thing almost-
>> Erik Reinert: Exactly.
>> Speaker 3: Terraform.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah,
because you can do it without it.
Like if you really wanted to,
you could write this as like as
that literally in terraform.
But it's a lot of extra lines
you're writing over and over and
then you have to remember how to
capitalize and when to capitalize.
So there's a lot of errors
that could happen here.
I think they also validate them as well.
So I think it's got a bit
more data validation too.
But yeah, you don't have to use them.
They're there to be helpful.
But they do they literally translate
this into that right there?
Yeah.
Cool.
Okay, awesome.
So that's our data file.
Let's go ahead and save that.